---
title: "Publication: Dynamic and intricate regulation by the Csr sRNAs in the Arctic Pseudoalteromonas fuliginea."
date: 2025-03-05
---

Congratulations to Ph.D. student Zedong for publishing this wonderful work in Communication Biology.

<!--more-->

sRNA (small RNA) is regarded as the "dark matter" of prokaryotic genomes, playing a crucial regulatory role in various aspects such as environmental adaptation, survival competition, and species interactions, serving as a "commander" in gene expression control. Research on sRNA in non-model polar microorganisms is still in its infancy. Researcher Liao Li from the Polar Research Center has conducted several studies around the polar Pseudoalteromonas fuliginea. In earlier work, the first sRNA, named Pf1, was discovered and characterized from the genome of Pseudoalteromonas fuliginea isolated from the Arctic Ocean, revealing the global regulatory mechanisms mediated by Pf1. Recently, the research group achieved new progress in this area, with their findings published in the journal Communications Biology under the Nature umbrella (a Top journal in the Chinese Academy of Sciences). The paper is entitled “Dynamic and intricate regulation by the Csr sRNAs in the Arctic Pseudoalteromonas fuliginea,” with doctoral student Duan Zedong, jointly trained by the Polar Research Center and Shanghai Jiao Tong University, listed as the first author, and Liao Li as the corresponding author.

The Csr (Carbon Storage Regulator) system is a widely existing global regulatory system in bacteria, primarily composed of the CsrA protein and its antagonistic sRNAs. CsrA regulates various cellular processes by binding to mRNA, while sRNA modulates its function by competitively binding to CsrA. Building upon the previous discovery of Pf1, this study identified two additional novel Csr sRNAs hidden in the non-coding regions of the genome (named Pf2 and Pf3) and revealed their complex regulatory network in Pseudoalteromonas fuliginea. Through a series of gene knockout and RIP-seq studies, it was demonstrated that a complementary relationship exists among the three sRNAs; knocking out one of them leads to compensatory increases in the other two sRNAs. However, knocking out more than two disrupts this compensatory balance, significantly affecting growth and physiology. The impact is also reflected in the changes in the CsrA target group.

The different deletions of Pf sRNA significantly changed the CsrA target group and affected the expression levels of several key genes involved in motility, cell membrane stability, biofilm formation, toxin secretion, carbon metabolism, and other physiological processes. Experimental evidence supports these effects; for instance, the deletion of one to three Pf sRNAs significantly enhanced bacterial motility, suggesting that these sRNAs may influence bacterial movement by regulating flagellum-associated genes. Their absence also hinders biofilm synthesis, indicating that Pf sRNAs affect bacterial attachment, survival, and even conditional pathogenicity in the environment. Through whole-genome screening, this study identified a batch of genes potentially regulated by CsrA, including those related to metabolic regulation, signal transduction, and resistance to environmental stress, suggesting that the Csr system may enhance bacterial adaptability to extreme environments by regulating specific target genes.

Furthermore, this study found that CsrA interacts not only with Pf sRNA and mRNA but also with other sRNAs for cross-regulation and predicted a possible interaction between the Csr and Hfq regulatory systems through unknown sRNA cross-links. The absence of Pf sRNAs affected the binding patterns of CsrA with other sRNAs, indicating the possibility of competitive regulation among different sRNAs, further revealing the complex and dynamic regulatory networks existing in bacteria. It is precisely because of these hierarchical regulatory networks that polar microorganisms can exhibit precise adaptive expression in response to environmental changes, thus surviving and reproducing more effectively.

This research reveals the complexity of the coordinated regulation of various Csr sRNAs in Pseudoalteromonas fuliginea, providing new insights into the adaptive evolution of microorganisms in extreme environments. The findings enrich our understanding of the Csr regulatory network and offer new strategies for future sRNA regulatory approaches to modify microorganisms in extreme environments. This study was supported by the National Key R&D Program (2022YFC2807501) and the National Natural Science Foundation (42476264, 41976224).
